.TH WRAPRUN "1" "Aug 2016" "wraprun 0.2.4+" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.B wraprun
\- an ensemble task wrapper for aprun
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wraprun
[global options]... task [: task ]...
.br
.B wraprun
-n pes[,...] [--w-cd path[,...]] [--w-oe path[,...]] [aprun options] [--] exe [exe
options] [: task ]...
.br
.B wraprun
[global options]... [task options]... [--] serial non-mpi-exe [exe options] [: task ]...
.br
.B wraprun
--w-conf file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Wraps independent MPI and/or serial executables into an ensemble that runs under
a single aprun call. A maximum of 2048 separate executables may be bundled. MPI
executables must be dynamically linked to run correctly under wraprun. However,
serial applications can be run as-is when declared with the keyword 'serial'.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.SS "Global Options"
Global options may only occur once and must precede the first task spec.
.PP
.PD
.TP 20
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show a help message summary and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-w\-conf\fR conf
Specify the path to a YAML configuration file
.TP
\fB\-\-w\-debug\fR
Print debugging information and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-w\-no\-ld\-pre\fR
Do not set the LD_PRELOAD environment variable. For advanced users only.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR
Do not copy executable to compute nodes
.PD
.PP
.SS "Tasks"
Each task spec must provide a number of PEs and an executable. The executable
binary is not copied to the compute nodes and there must be stored on a
filesystem mounted by the compute nodes. All Wraprun/Aprun options for the task
must be given before the executable.  Ambiguous option errors can be avoided by
inserting the pseudo\-argument \&'\-\-' prior to the executable string.
.PP
.PD
.TP 20
\fB\-n\fR pes[,pes...]
Number of processing elements (PEs). REQUIRED
.TP
\fB\-\-w\-cd\fR path[,path...]
Specify the task working directory.
.TP
\fB\-\-w\-oe\fR path[,path...]
Task stdout/stderr file basename
.TP
\fB\-a\fR arch
Host architecture
.TP
\fB\-cc\fR list
CPU list
.TP
\fB\-cp\fR file
CPU placement file
.TP
\fB\-d\fR depth
Process affinity depth
.TP
\fB\-j\fR cpupcu
CPUs per CU
.TP
\fB\-L\fR nodes
Node list
.TP
\fB\-N\fR ppn
PEs per node
.TP
\fB\-S\fR ppnn
PEs per NUMA node
.TP
\fB\-sl\fR list
NUMA node list
.TP
\fB\-sn\fR nnpn
Number of NUMA nodes per node
.TP
\fB\-ss\fR
Use strict memory containment
.TP
exe [...]
Executable and argument string. REQUIRED
.PD
.PP
.SS "Additional Tasks"
Additional tasks can be added where each 
.B task group
is separated by " : " using aprun MPMD\-mode syntax.
.PP
.SH "TASK SPLITTING"
.PP
Flags which accept a comma-separated set of optional additional values will split
a task spec into further task groups. For instance, to launch three independent
instances of the executable 'foo' with 3, 6 and 9 MPI ranks respectively and one
instance of the executable 'bar' with 5 ranks in the same call, one can enter:
.in +4n
.nf

wraprun -n 3,6,9 foo : -n 5 bar

.fi
.in
When multiple 'splittable' options are given in the same task spec, each must
have either a single value used for each spilt or fully agree on the number of
splits. For example, the following invocation will launch 3 groups of 'foo' each
with a unique working directory and 5 PEs (15 total):
.in +4n
.nf

wraprun -n 5 --w-cd ./a,./b,./c foo

.fi
.in
however, to give the group with working directory './b' an additional rank, it is
necessary to explicitly pass the number of PEs given to each split:
.in +4n
.nf

wraprun -n 5,6,5 --w-cd ./a,./b,./c foo

.fi
.in
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs and feature requests to the wraprun issue tracker at:
<https://github.com/olcf/wraprun/issues>
.SH AUTHORS
Wraprun is written and maintained by Adam Simpson and Matt Belhorn
at the Oak Ridge Leadership Computing Facility, Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
.SH COPYRIGHT
The MIT License (MIT)
.br
.if n Copyright (c) 2016 A. Simpson, M. Belhorn
.if t Copyright \(co 2016 A. Simpson, M. Belhorn
.PP
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.PP
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.PP
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
aprun(1)
.PP
.br
Further documentation available at: <https://github.com/olfc/wraprun>
.br
and at the OLCF support page for wraprun: <https://www.olcf.ornl.gov/kb_articles/wraprun/>
